 Examination Priorities
Fiscal Year 2025
Division of Examinations

DISCLAIMER: This statement represents the views of the staff of the Division of Examinations. It is not a 
rule, regulation, or statement of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC or Commission). The 
Commission has neither approved nor disapproved its content. This statement, like all staff statements, has no 
legal force or effect: it does not alter or amend applicable law, and it creates no new or additional obligations 
for any person.

E X A M I N AT I O N  P R I O R I T I E S :  F I S C A L  Y E A R  2 0 2 5   |   iii
CONTENTS
MESSAGE FROM THE LEADERSHIP TEAM .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  1
FISCAL YEAR 2025 EXAMINATION PRIORITIES.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   5
I.	
INVESTMENT ADVISERS .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   5
A.	 Adherence to Fiduciary Standards of Conduct.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 5
B.	
Effectiveness of Advisers’ Compliance Programs.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   6
C.	
Examinations of Advisers to Private Funds .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  7
D.	
Never Examined Advisers, Recently Registered Advisers, 
and Advisers Not Recently Examined.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 7
II.	
INVESTMENT COMPANIES .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 7
III.	 BROKER-DEALERS.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   8
A.	 Regulation Best Interest.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   8
B.	
Form CRS .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   8
C.	
Broker-Dealer Financial Responsibility Rules.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   8
D.	
Broker-Dealer Trading-Related Practices and Services.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   9
IV.	 SELF-REGULATORY ORGANIZATIONS.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   9
A.	 National Securities Exchanges.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   9
B.	
FINRA.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 9
C.	
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  10
V.	
CLEARING AGENCIES.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  10
VI.	 OTHER MARKET PARTICIPANTS.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   11
A.	 Municipal Advisors.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   11
B.	
Transfer Agents.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   11
C.	
Security-Based Swap Dealers .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 11
D.	
Security-Based Swap Execution Facilities.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   . 11
E.	
Funding Portals.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   11
VII.	 RISK AREAS IMPACTING VARIOUS MARKET PARTICIPANTS .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   12
A.	 Information Security and Operational Resiliency .  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  12
1.	
Cybersecurity.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  12
2.	
Regulation S-ID and Regulation S-P.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   12
3.	
Shortening of the Settlement Cycle.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  13
B.	
Emerging Financial Technologies.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   13
C.	
Crypto Assets.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  14
D.	
Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  14
E. 	 Anti-Money Laundering.  .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  15

iv  |   D I V I S I O N  O F  E X A M I N AT I O N S

E X A M I N AT I O N  P R I O R I T I E S :  F I S C A L  Y E A R  2 0 2 5   |   1
MESSAGE FROM THE 
LEADERSHIP TEAM
Three Decades Strong: An Adaptive, Transparent, and 
Risk-Focused Examination Program 
March 2025 marks 30 years since the creation of the Division of Examinations (Division or EXAMS).1 Since 
that time, the securities markets have undergone significant transformations, evolving from brokers using fax 
machines and open outcry floor trading, to an online, globally interconnected high-speed marketplace. To 
keep pace, we have embraced adaptable structures and agile processes that evolve alongside industry to help 
ensure robust investor protection and strong compliance.
Over the last three decades, technology has globally shifted the securities industry and how most people 
invest. In the early years of the examination program, the internet was just becoming mainstream. Today, 
some registered firms are developing generative artificial intelligence based applications and employing 
complex algorithms to inform investment strategies. Securities trades clear faster and many people can invest 
in our capital markets using just a smartphone. 
As technology continues to transform investing, we must work to identify new and emerging risks. The 
Division must constantly scan the horizon for these risks and stand ready to examine registered firms for 
compliance with SEC rules tied to these risks, and not merely react to these threats. To ensure investors remain 
protected, we continue to invest in training and work hard to keep our staff abreast of changes in the industry. 
We also continue to assess how these changes might impact registered firms’ operations and regulatory 
compliance, and at the same time, remain nimble to retool our approaches in conducting examinations. 
ADAPTING OUR OVERSIGHT RESPONSIBILITIES AS THE INDUSTRY 
LANDSCAPE CHANGES 
We regularly reassess our tools, methods, and approaches to keep pace with the growing breadth and 
complexity of the Division’s examination responsibilities. We remain committed to continually assess 
ways we can further improve and fulfill our important responsibilities in overseeing a growing portfolio of 
registered firms. 

2  |   D I V I S I O N  O F  E X A M I N AT I O N S
The number and breadth of our staff and specialized examination programs have increased significantly since 
1995. In those early years, we had approximately 500 staff across three programs. Today, we have more than 
1,100 staff across five programs with specialized functions and capabilities responsible for the Congressionally 
mandated increase in examination authority for many new types of registered firms. The SEC has also 
promulgated various rules creating additional obligations for registered firms. As these rules are adopted, the 
Division works closely with our partners across the SEC to develop a comprehensive examination agenda and 
direct the necessary resources to ensure consistent, timely, and effective examinations. 
We also strive to continually build and refine the Division’s knowledge management capabilities to better 
position ourselves to tackle new and expanding examination responsibilities. In the past two years, the 
Division has added specialized capabilities in the cybersecurity, security-based swaps, crypto asset, and 
intelligence space. We have also dedicated additional resources to focus on other critical areas, including 
national securities exchanges, private funds, and clearing agencies. In addition, we have enhanced our 
organizational structure to respond to developments in the markets and demographic changes that resulted 
from the global pandemic. We have likewise changed our approach to onsite examinations based on lessons 
we learned operating in a remote and hybrid environment. 
FOSTERING COMPLIANCE WITH PROACTIVE COMMUNICATION 
AND TRANSPARENCY 
We play a significant role in promoting compliance by engaging in extensive communication and outreach 
initiatives with the industry and other regulators throughout the year. Since 2013, we have published our 
annual examination priorities to inform investors and the industry about key areas where we intend to focus 
our resources­—those areas the Division believes present the highest risk areas to investors and the markets. 
Last year marked the first time we published the priorities with the start of the SEC’s fiscal year. Our goal 
remains the same. We strive to provide more transparency and as early as reasonably possible to allow 
registered firms more opportunities to evaluate their compliance efforts. 
We also publish risk alerts throughout the year to provide additional transparency about our examination 
program and to promote compliance. We published our first risk alert in 2011, which identified potential 
risks that could harm investors and identified opportunities for broker-dealers to strengthen their internal 
controls and compliance procedures to protect investors. Recently, in response to industry request, we 
published risk alerts covering a wider range of topics that describe typical broker-dealer and registered 
investment adviser examinations; even attaching sample document requests. We also published, earlier this 
year, a risk alert on registered firms’ preparedness for the rule shortening the securities transaction settlement 
cycle as part of the Division’s efforts to continue engaging with firms by providing additional information 
about our examinations and outreach in assessing their preparedness. 

E X A M I N AT I O N  P R I O R I T I E S :  F I S C A L  Y E A R  2 0 2 5   |   3
We also proactively engage with investors and the securities industry through outreach events, including 
national and regional compliance seminars, and speaking engagements. We launched our formal outreach 
program in 2005, following the implementation of the “Compliance Rule” for registered investment advisers 
and registered investment companies. The Division’s goal was to promote open communications with chief 
compliance officers as they worked to establish new compliance programs or improve existing compliance 
programs within their organizations. This November, the Division will host its 12th Compliance Outreach 
Program National Seminar for Investment Adviser and Investment Company Senior Officers. 
Today, our outreach efforts reach a wider audience, including investors and different types of registrants, 
and include a broad range of topics. Moving forward, we will continue our engagement with the industry to 
discuss compliance issues with the hope that participants may learn about effective compliance practices. In 
fiscal year 2025, for example, we anticipate conducting targeted outreach to the securities industry, focusing 
on implementation of the requirements contained in the SEC’s updates to Regulation S-P. 
DIRECTING RESOURCES TO CRITICAL RISK AREAS 
We have spent considerable time and effort since 1995 enhancing and fine tuning our risk assessment and 
surveillance capabilities to better ensure that the registered firms we believe pose the greatest risk to investors 
and markets are identified for examination. Leveraging data and information to identify firms and practices 
that present elevated risk to investors or the markets has been a key foundation of the Division’s risk-based 
examination-planning and candidate-selection processes. We utilize, for example, a centralized team within 
EXAMS that includes skilled quantitative analysts and financial engineers to perform more sophisticated 
data analytics to identify potential examination candidates and practices, as well as serve as another valuable 
resource to Division staff in analyzing large amounts of complex trade and financial data.
As part of our drive to conduct more efficient and effective examinations, we continue to make 
organizational changes and reallocate our limited resources. Last year, for example, the Division made 
structural enhancements to our broker-dealer and exchange program. We built out a group to focus on 
national securities exchanges, added a national risk strategist to assess and examine planning considerations, 
and added a new associate director to strengthen the program’s home office. Finally, EXAMS is deeply 
engaged in a national effort to reevaluate the methodology we use to calculate annual examination number 
projections. Going forward, we are committed to further tying our annual targets to our risk-based 
examination approach and available staff resources. 

4  |   D I V I S I O N  O F  E X A M I N AT I O N S
Since 1995, we have built an adaptive, transparent, and risk-focused examination program. To promote 
compliance with securities laws and better protect investors, we diligently monitor risks, and as is 
ever-necessary, adapt our approaches to transparently provide information based on our observations and 
growing industry experience. With these crucial objectives in mind, we are pleased to present the Division’s 
examination priorities for fiscal year 2025. 
Allison M. Fakhoury
National Clearance and 
Settlement Program 
Director
Keith E. Cassidy
Acting Director 
Kevin W. Goodman
National FINRA and 
Securities Industry 
Oversight Program Director
Vanessa L. Horton
National Investment 
Adviser/Investment 
Company Program Director
Alexis L. Hall
National Technology 
Controls Program 
Acting Director
Marshall M. Gandy
National Investment 
Adviser/Investment 
Company Program Director
Michael G. Rufino
National Broker-Dealer and 
Exchange Program Director
DIVISION OF EXAMINATIONS LEADERSHIP 

E X A M I N AT I O N  P R I O R I T I E S :  F I S C A L  Y E A R  2 0 2 5   |   5
T
he Division’s examination priorities 
are developed in consultation with 
other divisions and offices throughout 
the SEC and are informed by prior 
years’ examinations, market events, information 
gathered through participation in conferences and 
conversations with investors, registrants, industry 
groups, and other regulators. They reflect practices, 
products, and services that the Division believes 
present potentially heightened risks to investors or 
the integrity of the U.S. capital markets. They are 
not a comprehensive compilation of the issues the 
Division will address in examinations. The Division 
will cover other areas and conduct examinations 
focused on and devote resources to new or 
emerging risks, products and services, market 
events, and investor concerns. 
The Division welcomes comments and suggestions 
regarding how it can better fulfill its mission to 
promote compliance, prevent fraud, identify and 
monitor risk, and inform SEC policy. Contact 
information is available at https://www.sec.gov/
exams. If you suspect or observe activity that may 
violate the federal securities laws or otherwise 
operates to harm investors, please notify the SEC at 
https://www.sec.gov/tcr. 
I.  INVESTMENT ADVISERS 
A.	Adherence to Fiduciary 
Standards of Conduct
As a fiduciary, an investment adviser (adviser) owes 
a duty of care and a duty of loyalty to its clients. 
An adviser must, at all times, serve the best interest 
of its clients and must not place its own interests 
ahead of the interests of its clients. In addition, 
an adviser must eliminate or make full and fair 
disclosure of all conflicts of interest which may 
lead the adviser—consciously or unconsciously—to 
render advice that is not disinterested such that a 
client can provide informed consent to the conflict. 
Examining for advisers’ adherence to their duty 
of care and duty of loyalty obligations remains a 
priority, and the Division will continue to focus on: 
§ Investment advice provided to clients regarding 
products, investment strategies, and account 
types, and whether that advice satisfies the 
fiduciary obligations owed to their clients. 
In particular, the Division will focus on 
recommendations related to: (1) high-cost 
products; (2) unconventional instruments; 
(3) illiquid and difficult-to-value assets; and 
(4) assets sensitive to higher interest rates 
or changing market conditions, including 
commercial real estate. 
§ Dual registrants and advisers with affiliated 
broker-dealers. Common areas of focus 
include: (1) assessing investment advice and 
recommendations regarding certain products to 
determine whether they are suitable for clients’ 
advisory accounts; (2) reviewing disclosures 
to clients regarding the capacity in which 
recommendations are made; (3) reviewing the 
appropriateness of account selection practices 
(e.g., brokerage versus advisory), including 
rollovers from an existing brokerage account to 
FISCAL YEAR 2025 
EXAMINATION PRIORITIES

6  |   D I V I S I O N  O F  E X A M I N AT I O N S
an advisory account; and (4) assessing whether 
and how advisers adequately mitigate and fairly 
disclose conflicts of interest.
§ The impact of advisers’ financial conflicts of 
interest on providing impartial advice and 
best execution, with consideration given for 
non-standard fee arrangements. 
B.	Effectiveness of Advisers’ 
Compliance Programs
Rule 206(4)-7 under the Investment Advisers 
Act of 1940 (Advisers Act), often referred to as 
the “Compliance Rule,” requires SEC-registered 
investment advisers to: (1) adopt and implement 
written policies and procedures that are reasonably 
designed to prevent violations of the Advisers Act 
and the rules adopted under the Advisers Act by 
the adviser and its supervised persons; (2) designate 
an individual as Chief Compliance Officer to be 
responsible for administering the policies and 
procedures; and (3) review compliance policies and 
procedures at least annually for their adequacy and 
the effectiveness of their implementation. 
The Division’s assessment of the effectiveness 
of advisers’ compliance programs is a 
fundamental part of the examination process. 
Examinations focusing on this topic typically 
include an evaluation of the core areas of 
advisers’ compliance programs which include, as 
applicable and appropriate for each examination, 
marketing, valuation, trading, portfolio 
management, disclosure and filings, and custody. 
In addition, examinations on this topic typically 
include an analysis of advisers’ annual reviews of 
the effectiveness of their compliance programs, 
which are a critical element for addressing and 
monitoring conflicts of interests, including those 
conflicts stemming from the advisers’ business 
and compensation arrangements, arbitration 
clauses, and/or affiliations with certain parties 
and transactions. 
In reviewing advisers’ compliance policies and 
procedures, the Division continues to focus on 
whether the policies and procedures address 
compliance with the Advisers Act and the rules 
thereunder and are reasonably designed to prevent 
the advisers from placing their interests ahead of 
clients’ interests. Areas on which examinations 
may focus include: (1) fiduciary obligations of 
advisers that outsource investment selection and 
management; (2) alternative sources of revenue 
or benefits advisers receive, such as selling 
non-securities based products to clients; and 
(3) appropriateness and accuracy of fee calculations 
and the disclosure of fee-related conflicts, such 
as those associated with select clients negotiating 
lower fees when similar services are provided to 
other clients at a higher fee rate.
The Division’s review of an adviser’s compliance 
program may focus on or go into greater depth 
depending on its practices or products. For 
example, if clients invest in illiquid or difficult-
to-value assets, such as commercial real estate, 
examinations may have a heightened focus on 
valuation. If advisers integrate artificial intelligence 
(AI) into advisory operations, including portfolio 
management, trading, marketing, and compliance, 
an examination may look in-depth at compliance 
policies and procedures as well as disclosures 
to investors related to these areas. If an adviser 
utilizes a large number of independent contractors 
working from geographically dispersed locations, 
examinations may focus on supervision and 
oversight practices. Examinations may also focus 
on compliance practices when advisers change their 
business models or are new to advising particular 
types of assets, clients, or services.

E X A M I N AT I O N  P R I O R I T I E S :  F I S C A L  Y E A R  2 0 2 5   |   7
C.	Examinations of Advisers 
to Private Funds 
Advisers to private funds remain a significant 
portion of the SEC-registered investment adviser 
population. The Division will continue to focus 
on advisers to private funds and prioritize specific 
topics, such as reviewing:
§ Whether disclosures are consistent with actual 
practices and if an adviser met its fiduciary 
obligations in times of market volatility and 
whether a private fund is exposed to interest 
rate fluctuations. Examples of investment 
strategies that may be sensitive to market 
volatility and/or interest rate changes include 
commercial real estate, illiquid assets, and 
private credit. The Division may particularly 
focus on examinations of advisers to private 
funds that are experiencing poor performance 
and significant withdrawals and/or hold more 
leverage or difficult-to-value assets.
§ The accuracy of calculations and allocations of 
private fund fees and expenses (both fund-level 
and investment-level). Examples of areas that 
may impact the accuracy of fee calculations 
include valuation of illiquid assets, calculation 
of post commitment period management fees, 
offsetting of such fees and expenses, and the 
adequacy of disclosures.
§ Disclosure of conflicts of interests and risks, 
and adequacy of policies and procedures. 
Examples of products or practices for the focus 
of such conflicts, controls, and risks reviews 
include: (1) use of debt, fund-level lines of credit, 
investment allocations, adviser-led secondary 
transactions, transactions between fund(s) and/
or others; (2) investments held by multiple 
funds; and (3) use of affiliated service providers.
§ Compliance with recently adopted SEC rules, 
including amendments to Form PF,2 and the 
updated rules that govern investment adviser 
marketing,3 to assess whether advisers have 
established adequate policies and procedures 
and whether their actual practices conform 
to them.
D.	Never Examined Advisers, Recently 
Registered Advisers, and Advisers 
Not Recently Examined
As with previous years, the Division will prioritize 
examinations of advisers that have never been 
examined and those that have not been recently 
examined with a continued focus on newly 
registered advisers. 
II.  INVESTMENT COMPANIES 
The Division continues to prioritize examinations 
of registered investment companies (RICs or funds), 
including mutual funds and exchange-traded 
funds, due to their importance to retail investors, 
particularly those saving for retirement.
Examinations of RICs will generally review their 
compliance programs, disclosures, and governance 
practices. Particular examination focus areas may 
include review of specific topics or characteristics 
involving: (1) fund fees and expenses, and any 
associated waivers and reimbursements; (2) 
oversight of service providers (both affiliated and 
third-party); (3) portfolio management practices 
and disclosures, for consistency with claims about 
investment strategies or approaches and with fund 
filings and marketing materials; and (4) issues 
associated with market volatility. The Division 
will also continue to monitor certain developing 
areas of interest, such as RICs with exposure to 
commercial real estate and compliance with new 
and amended rules. 

8  |   D I V I S I O N  O F  E X A M I N AT I O N S
As with adviser examinations, the Division will 
continue to examine funds that have never before 
been examined and those that have not been 
recently examined with particular focus on newly 
registered funds. 
III.  BROKER-DEALERS
A.	Regulation Best Interest
The Division will continue to examine broker-
dealer practices related to Regulation Best Interest, 
including the following areas: (1) recommendations 
with regard to products, investment strategies, 
and account types and whether the broker has a 
reasonable basis to believe the recommendation 
is in the best interest of the customer and does 
not place the broker’s interests ahead of the 
customer’s interests; (2) disclosures made to 
investors regarding conflicts of interest; (3) conflict 
identification and mitigation and elimination 
practices; (4) processes for reviewing reasonably 
available alternatives; and (5) factors considered 
in light of the investor’s investment profile such as 
investment goals and account characteristics.
In particular, examinations of broker-dealer 
practices will focus on those recommended 
products that are complex, illiquid, or present 
higher risk to investors. Examples of such products 
may include highly leveraged or inverse products, 
crypto assets, structured products, alternative 
investments, products that are not registered with 
the Commission (and are therefore less transparent), 
products with complex fee structures or return 
calculations, products based on exotic benchmarks, 
or products that represent a growth area for retail 
investment. Examinations may also focus on 
recommendations: (1) using automated tools or 
other digital engagement practices; (2) related to 
opening different account types, such as option, 
margin and self-directed IRA accounts; and (3) 
made to certain types of investors, such as older 
investors and those saving for retirement or college. 
Examinations may also focus on dual registrants 
and encompass reviews of firms’ process for 
identifying and mitigating and eliminating conflicts 
of interest, account allocation practices (e.g., 
allocation of investments where an investor has 
more than one type of account) and account 
selection practices (e.g., brokerage versus 
advisory, including when rolling over to an IRA 
or transferring an existing brokerage account to 
an advisory account, as well as advice to open 
wrap fee accounts). Examinations may also assess 
broker-dealer supervision of sales practices at 
branch office locations. 
B.	Form CRS
The Division’s examinations will review the 
content of a broker-dealer’s relationship summary, 
such as how the broker-dealer describes: (1) the 
relationships and services that it offers to retail 
customers; (2) its fees and costs; and (3) its conflicts 
of interest, and whether the broker-dealer discloses 
any disciplinary history. These examinations will 
also evaluate whether broker-dealers have met 
the obligations to file their relationship summary 
with the Commission and deliver their relationship 
summary to retail customers. 
C.	Broker-Dealer Financial 
Responsibility Rules
Examinations will continue to focus on broker-
dealer compliance with the net capital rule and 
the customer protection rule and related internal 
processes, procedures, and controls. Areas of 
review will include broker-dealer accounting 
practices impacted by recent regulatory changes, 
as well as the timeliness of financial notifications 
and other required filings made by the broker-
dealer. Reviews will also focus on broker-dealers’ 

E X A M I N AT I O N  P R I O R I T I E S :  F I S C A L  Y E A R  2 0 2 5   |   9
operational resiliency programs, including 
supervision of third-party or vendor provided 
services that contribute to the records firms used 
to prepare their financial reporting information. 
In addition, examinations will assess broker-dealer 
credit, market, and liquidity risk management 
controls to ensure that firms have sufficient 
liquidity to manage stress events. 
D.	Broker-Dealer Trading-Related 
Practices and Services
A focus on broker-dealer equity and fixed income 
trading practices remains a Division priority. Areas 
of review will consider the structure, marketing, 
fees, and potential conflicts associated with 
offerings by broker-dealers to retail customers, 
including bank sweep programs, fully-paid 
lending programs, and mobile apps/online trading 
platforms. In addition, examinations will review 
broker-dealer trading practices associated with 
trading in pre-IPO companies and the sale of 
private company shares in secondary markets. The 
Division will also review broker-dealers’ execution 
of retail orders. These reviews will include: 
(1) whether retail orders are marked as “held” or 
“not held,” and the consistency of the marking 
with retail instructions; and (2) the pricing and 
valuation of illiquid or retail-focused instruments 
such as variable rate demand obligations, other 
municipal securities, and non-traded REITs.
Finally, with respect to Regulation SHO, the 
Division will review whether broker-dealers are 
appropriately relying on the bona fide market 
making exception, including whether quoting 
activity is away from the inside bid/offer. 
IV.  SELF-REGULATORY 
ORGANIZATIONS
A.	National Securities Exchanges
National securities exchanges provide marketplaces 
for securities transactions and, under the 
federal securities laws, serve as self-regulatory 
organizations responsible for enforcing compliance 
by their members with applicable rules and laws. 
As in prior years, the Division will examine these 
exchanges to assess whether they are meeting 
their obligations to enforce compliance with the 
exchanges’ own rules, as well as federal securities 
laws. Examinations may focus on exchange 
governance, regulatory programs, and participation 
in National Market System Plans.
B.	FINRA
FINRA oversees approximately 3,400 brokerage 
firms, 150,000 branch offices, and more than 
612,000 registered representatives through 
examinations, enforcement, and surveillance. In 
addition, FINRA, among other things, promulgates 
rules that govern its members, provides a forum 
for securities arbitration and mediation, conducts 
market regulation and oversight, including by 
contract, for a majority of national securities 
exchanges, reviews broker-dealer advertisements, 
administers the testing and licensing of registered 
persons, and operates industry utilities, such as 
trade reporting facilities.
The Division conducts risk-based oversight 
examinations of FINRA. It selects major regulatory 
areas within FINRA to examine through a risk-
assessment process designed to identify aspects of 
FINRA’s operations important to the protection of 
investors and market integrity, including FINRA’s 
implementation of investor protection initiatives 

10  |   D I V I S I O N  O F  E X A M I N AT I O N S
such as Regulation Best Interest and Form CRS, 
and the fair administration of its dispute resolution 
forum. The Division’s risk-assessment process is 
informed by: (1) collecting and analyzing extensive 
information and data; (2) holding regular meetings 
with key functional areas within FINRA; and 
(3) reaching out to various stakeholders such as 
broker-dealers and investor groups. The Division 
also conducts oversight examinations of FINRA’s 
examinations of certain broker-dealers and 
municipal advisors that are FINRA members. 
Based on the outcomes of these examinations, the 
Division provides FINRA with detailed recommen­
dations to improve its programs, risk assessment 
processes, and future examinations.
C.	Municipal Securities 
Rulemaking Board (MSRB)
MSRB regulates the activities of broker-dealers 
that buy, sell, and underwrite municipal securities, 
and municipal advisors. MSRB establishes rules 
for municipal broker-dealers (including registered 
municipal securities dealers) and municipal 
advisors, supports market transparency by making 
municipal securities trade data and disclosure 
documents available, and conducts education and 
outreach regarding the municipal securities market. 
The Division, along with FINRA and the federal 
banking regulators, conducts examinations of 
registrants to assess compliance with MSRB rules, 
as well as applicable federal securities laws and 
rules. The Division also applies a risk-assessment 
process, similar to the one it uses to oversee 
FINRA, to identify areas to examine at the MSRB.
V.  CLEARING AGENCIES
Title VIII of the Dodd-Frank Act requires the 
Commission to examine, at least once annually, 
each clearing agency designated as systemically 
important and for which the Commission serves 
as the supervisory agency. Pursuant to Section 807 
of the Dodd-Frank Act, these examinations will 
focus on clearing agencies’ core risks, processes, 
and controls and will cover the specific areas 
required by statute, including the nature of 
clearing agencies’ operations and assessment of 
financial and operational risk. Additionally, the 
Division conducts risk-based examinations of 
other registered clearing agencies that have not 
been designated as systemically important. The 
Division examines the registered clearing agencies 
for compliance with the Commission’s Standards 
for Covered Clearing Agencies, which are rules 
that require covered clearing agencies to have 
policies and procedures that address, among other 
things, maintaining sufficient financial resources, 
protecting against credit risks, managing member 
defaults, and managing operational and other risks. 
Examinations of registered clearing agencies include 
both risk-based examinations and corrective action 
reviews, and are undertaken to assess: (1) whether 
the clearing agencies’ respective risk management 
frameworks comply with the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (Exchange Act), and serve the needs of 
their members and the markets they serve; (2) the 
adequacy and timeliness of their remediation of 
prior deficiencies, including, for example, the role 
of senior leadership in the remediation process; and 
(3) other risk areas identified in collaboration with 
the Commission’s Division of Trading and Markets 
(Trading and Markets) and other regulators. In 
addition, the Division also examines security-based 
swap data repositories, as well as entities operating 
pursuant to a Commission order exempting them 
from the clearing agency registration requirement 
under Section 17A(b)(1) of the Exchange Act. 
Areas of examination focus may include risk 
management of liquidity, margin systems, default 

E X A M I N AT I O N  P R I O R I T I E S :  F I S C A L  Y E A R  2 0 2 5   |   11
management, links, third-party relationships, and 
operations, among other things. 
Finally, the Division consults with the Federal 
Reserve Board each year on the scope and method­
ology of the Commission’s Dodd-Frank examina­
tions, as required by that Act, and routinely 
consults with Trading and Markets on risks it 
observes in its supervisory role over clearing 
agencies. These risks are also incorporated into the 
risk-based planning of the examinations.
VI.  OTHER MARKET PARTICIPANTS
A.	Municipal Advisors
The Division will continue to examine whether 
municipal advisors have met their fiduciary duty 
to municipal entity clients when engaging in 
municipal advisory activities, such as providing 
advice or recommendations regarding the pricing 
or method of sale with respect to the issuance 
of municipal securities. The Division will also 
continue to examine whether municipal advisors 
have complied with MSRB Rule G-42, which 
establishes the core standards of conduct and duties 
applicable to non-solicitor municipal advisors, 
including requirements to disclose conflicts of 
interest and to document municipal advisory 
relationships. Finally, the Division will continue 
to assess whether municipal advisors have made 
required filings with the Commission and met 
their professional qualification, recordkeeping, and 
supervision requirements.
B.	Transfer Agents
The Division will continue to examine transfer 
agent processing of items and transfers, 
recordkeeping and record retention, safeguarding 
of funds and securities, and filings with the 
Commission. Examinations will also focus on 
transfer agents that use emerging technology to 
perform their transfer agent functions. 
C.	Security-Based Swap Dealers (SBSDs)
For SBSDs that have yet to be examined, 
the Division expects to continue to focus its 
examinations on whether SBSDs have implemented 
policies and procedures related to compliance 
with security-based swap rules generally, including 
whether they are meeting their obligations under 
Regulation SBSR to accurately report security-
based swap transactions to security-based swap 
data repositories and, where applicable, whether 
they are complying with relevant conditions 
in Commission orders governing substituted 
compliance. For other SBSDs, the Division may 
focus on SBSDs’ practices with respect to applicable 
capital, margin, and segregation requirements and 
risk management. The Division also expects to 
assess whether SBSDs have taken corrective action 
to address issues identified in prior examinations. 
D.	Security-Based Swap Execution 
Facilities (SBSEFs)
On November 2, 2023, the Commission adopted 
new Regulation SE under the Exchange Act, 
which implements a set of rules and forms for 
the registration and regulation of SBSEFs.4 The 
adoption of Regulation SE eliminated the prior 
temporary registration exemptions for SBSEFs as of 
August 12, 2024, at which time SBSEFs needed to 
apply for registration with the Commission. Subject 
to the timing of these events and the Commission’s 
decisions with respect to any submitted applica­
tions, the Division may begin conducting examina­
tions of registered SBSEFs in late fiscal year 2025.
E.	Funding Portals
The Division will examine whether funding portals 
are making and preserving: (1) required records, 
such as records related to investors who purchase, 
or attempt to purchase, securities through the 
funding portal; and (2) records related to issuers 
who offer and sell, or attempt to offer and sell, 
securities through the funding portal and the 
control persons of such issuers, among others. In 

12  |   D I V I S I O N  O F  E X A M I N AT I O N S
addition, the Division will review funding portals’ 
written policies and procedures to assess if they 
are reasonably designed to achieve compliance 
with applicable federal securities laws and rules, 
such as the restrictions that prohibit funding 
portals from engaging in the following activities: 
(1) offering investment advice or recommendations; 
(2) soliciting transactions in the securities displayed 
on the funding portal’s platform; (3) compensating 
persons for such solicitation or based on the sale 
of securities displayed on the funding portal’s 
platform; and (4) holding, managing, possessing, or 
handling investor funds or securities. 
VII.  RISK AREAS IMPACTING VARIOUS 
MARKET PARTICIPANTS 
A.	Information Security and 
Operational Resiliency 
1.	 CYBERSECURITY
The Division will continue to review registrant 
practices to prevent interruptions to mission-
critical services and to protect investor 
information, records, and assets. Operational 
disruption risks remain elevated due to the 
proliferation of cybersecurity attacks, firms’ 
dispersed operations, weather-related events, and 
geopolitical concerns. As part of its examinations 
in this area, the Division will examine registrants’ 
procedures and practices to assess whether they 
are reasonably managing information security and 
operational risks. 
A perennial examination priority, the Division’s 
focus on cybersecurity practices by registrants 
remains vital to ensure the safeguarding of 
customer records and information, as applicable. 
Particular attention will be on firms’ policies 
and procedures, governance practices, data loss 
prevention, access controls, account management, 
and responses to cyber-related incidents, 
including those related to ransomware attacks. 
The Division will also review alternative trading 
systems’ safeguards to protect confidential 
trading information. 
With respect to third-party products and services 
in particular, the Division will continue to consider 
cybersecurity risks and resiliency goals associated 
with third-party products, sub-contractors, 
services, and any information technology (IT) 
resources used by the business without the IT 
department’s approval, knowledge or oversight, 
or non-supported infrastructure. The focus will 
include assessments of how registrants identify and 
address these risks to essential business operations. 
2.	 REGULATION S-ID AND 
REGULATION S-P
The Division will assess registrant compliance 
with Regulations S-ID and S-P, as applicable. 
Examinations will focus on firms’ policies and 
procedures, internal controls, oversight of third-
party vendors, and governance practices. In 
addition, the Division will focus on firms’ policies 
and procedures as they pertain to safeguarding 
customer records and information at firms 
providing electronic investment services, including: 
§ Identification and detection to prevent and 
protect against identity theft during customer 
account takeovers and fraudulent transfers.
§ Firms’ practices to prevent account intrusions 
and safeguard customer records and 
information, including personally identifiable 
information, especially as it pertains to firms 
with multiple branch offices.

E X A M I N AT I O N  P R I O R I T I E S :  F I S C A L  Y E A R  2 0 2 5   |   13
§ Firm training on identity theft prevention 
program and whether their policies and 
procedures are reasonably designed to 
protect customer records and information. 
Examinations will also assess a firm’s efforts to 
address operational risk, including technology 
risks, as operational failures may impact a 
firm’s ability to safeguard customer records and 
information. 
In preparation for the compliance date of the 
Commission’s amendments to Regulation S-P,5 the 
Division will engage with firms during examina­
tions about their progress in preparing to establish 
incident response programs reasonably designed to 
detect, respond to, and recover from unauthorized 
access to or use of customer information.
3.	 SHORTENING OF THE 
SETTLEMENT CYCLE6
The Division will evaluate broker-dealer 
compliance with Rule 15c6-1 under the Exchange 
Act, which reduced the standard settlement cycle 
for most securities to the day after trade date 
(T+1), and with Rule 15c6-2 under the Exchange 
Act, which requires broker-dealers engaging in the 
allocation, confirmation, or affirmation process 
to have written agreements or written procedures 
reasonably designed to ensure completion of the 
process as soon as practicable and no later than the 
end of day on trade date (T+0). 
The Division will evaluate advisers’ compliance 
with amended books and records requirements 
associated with T+1. The Division will also 
consider advisers’ operational changes, or impacts 
related to adviser facilitation of institutional 
transactions that are involved in the allocation, 
confirmation, or affirmation processes subject to 
Rule 15c6-2(a).
In addition, examinations will assess registrant 
technology changes associated with shortening 
of the settlement cycle and evaluate any areas 
that need further attention and resources, such as 
specific products or counterparties that are routinely 
not settling within the required time frames. 
B.	Emerging Financial Technologies
The Division remains focused on registrants’ use 
of certain services, such as automated investment 
tools, AI, and trading algorithms or platforms, 
and the risks associated with the use of emerging 
technologies and alternative sources of data. As 
such, the Division will, in particular, examine 
firms that employ certain digital engagement 
practices, such as digital investment advisory 
services, recommendations, and related tools 
and methods. When conducting these reviews, 
assessments generally will include whether: 
(1) representations are fair and accurate; 
(2) operations and controls in place are consistent 
with disclosures made to investors; (3) algorithms 
produce advice or recommendations consistent 
with investors’ investment profiles or stated 
strategies; and (4) controls to confirm that advice 
or recommendations resulting from digital 
engagement practices are consistent with regulatory 
obligations to investors, including older investors. 
With respect to AI, the Division will review 
registrant representations regarding their AI 
capabilities or AI use for accuracy. In addition, 
the Division will assess whether firms have 
implemented adequate policies and procedures 
to monitor and/or supervise their use of AI, 
including for tasks related to fraud prevention 
and detection, back-office operations, anti-money 
laundering (AML), and trading functions, as 
applicable. Reviews will also consider firm 
integration of regulatory technology to automate 

14  |   D I V I S I O N  O F  E X A M I N AT I O N S
internal processes and optimize efficiencies. In 
addition, the Division will examine how registrants 
protect against loss or misuse of client records and 
information that may occur from the use of third-
party AI models and tools.
C.	Crypto Assets
The Division continues to observe the proliferation 
of investments involving crypto assets and their 
associated products and services. Given the 
volatility and activity involving the crypto asset 
markets, the Division will continue to monitor 
and, when appropriate, conduct examinations of 
registrants offering crypto asset-related services. 
Examinations of registrants will focus on the offer, 
sale, recommendation, advice, trading, and other 
activities involving crypto assets that are offered 
and sold as securities or related products, such as 
spot bitcoin or ether exchange-traded products. 
In particular, these examinations will review 
whether the registrants: (1) meet and follow 
their respective standards of conduct when 
recommending or advising customers and clients 
regarding crypto assets with a focus on an initial 
and ongoing understanding of the products 
that have a particular focus on scenarios where 
investors are retail-based (including older investors) 
and investments involving retirement assets; and 
(2) routinely review, update, and enhance their 
compliance practices (including crypto asset wallet 
reviews, custody practices, Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) 
compliance reviews, and valuation procedures), 
risk disclosures, and operational resiliency practices 
(i.e., data integrity and business continuity plans), 
if required. 
The Division will assess registrant practices to 
address the technological risks associated with 
the use of blockchain and distributed ledger 
technology, including risks pertaining to the 
security of crypto assets.
D.	Regulation Systems Compliance 
and Integrity (SCI)
SCI entities must establish, maintain, and enforce 
written policies and procedures reasonably 
designed to ensure that their systems’ capacity, 
integrity, resiliency, availability, and security is 
adequate to maintain their operational capability 
and promote the maintenance of fair and orderly 
markets. As part of the Division’s examination of 
SCI entities, reviews will focus on: 
§ The policies and procedures regarding the 
operational, business continuity planning and 
testing practices of SCI entities.
§ The effectiveness of incident response plans. In 
particular, the Division will evaluate policies 
and procedures regarding the decision to 
disconnect or reconnect from another registrant 
or third-party that is experiencing a cyber 
event, and the decision-making process to 
disconnect or reconnect to registrants or third 
parties when the SCI entity is experiencing a 
cyber event. This would include all forms of 
inbound and outbound connectivity, such as 
trade processing, data feeds, remote processing, 
post trade reporting, market surveillance, and 
remote access.
§ The policies and procedures pertaining to the 
security operations management tools employed 
by SCI entities to ensure that their SCI systems 
and indirect SCI systems have adequate levels 
of security and their effectiveness to meet the 
security goals of the organization.

E X A M I N AT I O N  P R I O R I T I E S :  F I S C A L  Y E A R  2 0 2 5   |   15
E. 	AML
The BSA requires certain financial institutions, 
including broker-dealers and certain RICs, to 
establish AML programs that are tailored to 
address the risks associated with the firm’s location, 
size, and activities, including the customers they 
serve, the types of products and services offered, 
and how those products and services are offered. 
These programs must, among other things, 
include policies, procedures, and internal controls 
reasonably designed to achieve compliance with 
the BSA and its implementing rules; independent 
testing; and risk-based procedures to perform 
certain customer due diligence, which includes 
identifying and verifying the identity of customers 
and conducting ongoing monitoring to identify and 
report suspicious transactions. Where appropriate, 
certain financial institutions must also file Suspi­
cious Activity Reports (SARs) with the Financial 
Crimes Enforcement Network. SARs can be used 
to identify and combat market manipulation, 
insider trading, Ponzi schemes, corruption, money 
laundering, terrorist financing, and a variety 
of other illicit activities potentially violative of 
securities and other laws and regulations. 
The Division will continue to focus on AML 
programs and review whether broker-dealers 
and certain RICs are: (1) appropriately tailoring 
their AML program to their business model 
and associated AML risks; (2) conducting 
independent testing; (3) establishing an adequate 
customer identification program, including for 
beneficial owners of legal entity customers; 
and (4) meeting their SAR filing obligations. 
Examinations of certain RICs will also review 
policies and procedures for oversight of 
applicable financial intermediaries. 
Lastly, the Division will review whether 
broker-dealers and advisers are monitoring the 
Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets 
Control sanctions and ensuring compliance with 
such sanctions.

16  |   D I V I S I O N  O F  E X A M I N AT I O N S
Endnotes
1	
The Commission established in March 1995, the 
Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations, 
which on December 17, 2020, was renamed the 
Division of Examinations. 
2	
SEC, Form PF; Reporting Requirements for All Filers 
and Large Hedge Fund Advisers, Advisers Act Rel. 
No. 6546 (Feb. 8, 2024) (Adopting amendments to 
Form PF with a compliance date in March 2025 to, 
among other things, enhance reporting by private 
fund advisers regarding private funds’ operations and 
strategies, improve data quality and comparability, 
assist in identifying trends, and improve the ability 
of the Financial Stability Oversight Council to 
monitor and assess systemic risk); Form PF Reporting 
Requirements for Large Liquidity Fund Advisers, 
Advisers Act Rel. No. 6344 (Jul. 12, 2023) (Adopting 
amendments to Form PF concerning the information 
large liquidity fund advisers must report for the 
liquidity funds they advise); and Form PF; Event 
Reporting for Large Hedge Fund Advisers and Private 
Equity Fund Advisers; Requirements for Large Private 
Equity Fund Adviser Reporting, Advisers Act Rel. No. 
6297 (May 3, 2023) (Adopting amendments to Form 
PF to require event reporting upon the occurrence 
of key events, to require large private equity fund 
advisers to provide additional information to the SEC 
about the private equity funds they advise).
3	
SEC, Investment Adviser Marketing, Advisers Act Rel. 
No. 5653 (Dec. 22, 2020) (Adopting amendments to 
create a single rule that replaces the prior advertising 
and cash solicitation rules and modernizes rules 
that govern investment adviser advertisements and 
payments to solicitors).
4	
SEC, Security-Based Swap Execution and Registration 
of Security-Based Swap Execution Facilities, Exchange 
Act Rel. No. 98845 (Nov. 2, 2023). 
5	
SEC, Regulation S-P: Privacy of Consumer Financial 
Information and Safeguarding Customer Information, 
Advisers Act Rel. No. 6604 (May 16, 2024) (Adopting 
amendments to Regulation S-P that apply to broker-
dealers, funding portals, investment companies, 
SEC-registered investment advisers, and transfer 
agents registered with the SEC or another appropriate 
regulatory agency (collectively, “covered institutions”) 
and are designed to modernize and enhance the 
protection of consumer financial information by: (1) 
requiring covered institutions to develop, implement, 
and maintain written policies and procedures for an 
incident response program that is reasonably designed 
to detect, respond to, and recover from unauthorized 
access to or use of customer information; (2) requiring 
that the response program include procedures for 
covered institutions to provide timely notification 
to affected individuals whose sensitive customer 
information was, or is reasonably likely to have 
been, accessed or used without authorization; and 
(3) broadening the scope of information covered by 
Regulation S-P’s requirements).
6	
Division, Risk Alert: Shortening the Securities 
Transaction Settlement Cycle (Mar. 27, 2024) (To 
assess registrants’ adaptiveness to the shortened 
settlement cycle, EXAMS intends to continue engaging 
with registrants through examinations and outreach. 
The Risk Alert provides registrants with additional 
information about the scope and content of the 
examinations and outreach). 


U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549

